MongoDB MCQ’s
—--------------------

1. Which of the following is a NoSQL database?
a) MySQL
b) MongoDB
c) Oracle
d) SQL Server
ANSWER: b) MongoDB

2. What is sharding in MongoDB?
a) Splitting a database into smaller, more manageable pieces called shards
b) Combining multiple databases into a single, unified database
c) Creating a backup copy of a database for disaster recovery purposes
d) None of the above
ANSWER:a) Splitting a database into smaller, more manageable pieces called shards

3. What is a BSON in MongoDB?
a) A type of data structure used to store data in MongoDB
b) A query language used to retrieve data from MongoDB
c) A command used to create a new database in MongoDB
d) None of the above
ANSWER: a) A type of data structure used to store data in MongoDB

4. Which of the following is a collection in MongoDB?
a) A group of related documents
b) A group of related tables
c) A group of related fields
d) None of the above
ANSWER: a) A group of related documents

5. What is a replica set in MongoDB?
a) A group of MongoDB instances that maintain the same data set
b) A type of query used to retrieve data from MongoDB
c) A type of index used to improve query performance
d) None of the above
ANSWER: a) A group of MongoDB instances that maintain the same data set

6. Which of the following is a command used to create a new database in MongoDB?
a) INSERT
b) UPDATE
c) DELETE
d) None of the above
ANSWER: d) None of the above

7.What is the use of the $push operator in MongoDB?
a) To add a new document to a collection
b) To add a new field to a document
c) To add an element to the end of an array
d) None of the above
ANSWER: c) To add an element to the end of an array

8.What is the use of the $inc operator in MongoDB?
a) To increment the value of a field by a specified amount
b) To insert a new document into a collection
c) To remove a field from a document
d) None of the above
ANSWER: a) To increment the value of a field by a specified amount

9. What is the use of the $set operator in MongoDB?
a) To set the value of a field in a document
b) To insert a new document into a collection
c) To remove a field from a document
d) None of the above
ANSWER: a) To set the value of a field in a document

10. What is the use of the $skip operator in MongoDB?
a) To sort the documents in a collection
b) To group documents in a collection based on a specified condition
c) To skip a specified number of documents in the result set
d) None of the above
ANSWER: c) To skip a specified number of documents in the result set

